---
layout: post
title: "Taipei + Taichung &#127481;&#127484;"
date: 2020-02-15
tags: [Travel]
---

It was actually pretty nice visiting Taiwan in the midst of the coronavirus
(COVID-19) frenzy. Importantly, we weren't very worried (whether we should have
been or not). The less important, but convenient, part was that it was super
easy to get into restaurants without much of a wait. Here's where we ate:

## Taipei

### Meals

- [Din Tai Fung]() -- The super famous restaurant you've probably heard about.
  Everything is as good as they say. Shelley and I love dim sum, so went to DTF
  three times.
- [Yong He Soy Milk King]() -- I'm not a big fan of soy milk, but this was
  a pretty good place to grab breakfast.
- [Huang Ji Braised Pork]() -- Conveniently right around the corner from our
  hotel. We kind of let this one come and go without a lot of fanfare, but it
  was _really_ good.
- [12 Hotpot]() -- We ate here with a high school friend of Shelley's. Your
  typical, each-person-gets-their-own hot pot.

### Desserts

- [Ice Monster]() -- Something between flavored ice and "proper" dairy-based
  ice cream, and a few other treats (which I prefer) like sesame balls.

### Night Markets

- [Gongguan]()
- [Ximending]()

## Taichung

### Meals

- [Chun Shui Tang]() -- Controversially, the original home of bubble tea. Some
  good food on the menu, but c'mon, you have to go for the milk tea.
- [Modern Toilet Restaurant]() -- Not good! But maybe we shouldn't have been
  too surprised by that...

### Desserts

- [Miyahara Ice Cream]() -- Elegant first floor, where they sell pineapple
  cakes and other sweets out of glass display cases. The dining room is
  upstairs, where you can overindulge on cake and ice cream trying to meet the
  minimum spend.

### Night Markets

- [Feng Chia]()

❧

Taiwan was our favorite vacation yet. We hope to go back many times!
