---
layout: post
title: "Five Books I Read This Year"
date: 2020-12-15
tags: [Books]
---

**['How to Do Nothing: Resisting the Attention
Economy'](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1612198554/)** _by Jenny Odell_

I read this on a plane back from Seoul, right before COVID-19 lockdowns started
in NYC. One of my biggest struggles (and, later on, successes!) this year was
overcoming the severe work anxiety I've suffered from since graduation.
Jenny's books was a gentle, but very compelling, reminder of the many
perspectives I can take on life that don't revolve around success and failure
at work.

**['Sandworm: A New Era of Cyberwar and the Hunt for the Kremlin's Most
Dangerous Hackers'](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0385544405)** _by Andy
Greenberg_

I know almost nothing about computer security, but my perception of the
community (based mostly on lurking infosec Twitter for a few years) is that
it's a dramatic and dangerous one. Even if that's not fully true, 'Sandworm'
scratched my itch for a real-world thriller nevertheless. The book is a super
informative overview of the history of some cyberattacks and hacking teams I've
been hearing about in the news ever since the 2016 US presidential election.

**['Skin in the Game: Hidden Asymmetries in Daily
Life'](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/042528462X)** _by Nassim Nicholas
Taleb_

Nassim is a polarizing guy, but I solidly fall in the camp of enjoying
everything he writes (books, papers, raging tweets, etc.). Like his other works
in 'Incerto', 'Skin in the Game' is seemingly all over the place, yet very
focused at the same time. True to his statement in the first chapter, it
doesn't take more than a few dozen pages to understand the meaning of "skin in
the game"; it's a pretty simple theory, but Nassim spends a lot of time talking
through the (often amusing) logical, ethical, and practical conclusions of it.

**['Working in Public: The Making and Maintenance of Open Source
Software'](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0578675862)** _by Nadia Eghbal_

I thought I knew how open source really worked, until I read 'Working in
Public'. Nadia's analysis of the open source "market" is informative and
I particularly enjoyed the direct quotes from interviews with developers.
However, my favorite part of the book was getting to see a bird's-eye, very
scientific view of a community that I'm _technically_ part of but at a _macro
level_ apparently knew very little about.

**['How the Internet Really Works: An Illustrated Guide to Protocols, Privacy,
Censorship, and Governance'](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1718500297)**
_by Article 19_

Contributing authors Mallory Knodel, Ulrike Uhlig, Niels ten Oever, and Corinne
Cath. It's just a fun, cute little illustrated guide to exactly what the title
suggests. I generally knew the basics of IP, DNS, and Internet infrastructure,
but 'How the Internet Really Works' puts everything together in an
easily-followed narrative.
