---
layout: post
title: "Benflow"
date: 2021-07-01
tags: [Git]
---

My summer interns are learning about Git this week. Most are completely new to
version control, so I put together the following notes to outline how I use Git
to manage my thoughts and development process.

I've ramped teammates up with Git in the past, but typically started with the
API. I think that was a mistake. This time, I started the conversation with
a focus on process, and that seemed to work well; feedback has been that the
_how_ was easy to digest since the _what_ and _why_ were covered up front.

I'd like to think my approach to SCM is a happy medium between
[Gitflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow)
and just committing everything directly to main. Part of what makes it a good
compromise is that it's composable; if one component seems too cumbersome for
my current project, it can be forgone as I see fit.

Let's jump in from the beginning of a project:

## Create a GitHub repository

Go to GitHub and click that big green button. I never use the GitHub UI to
initialize any files, and instead add any required boilerplate once the project
has been created.

<p class="note">
  <b>Tip:</b> Consider creating a <a
  href="https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter">Cookiecutter</a> when you
  find yourself creating the same boilerplate over and over.
</p>

## Start working on the master branch

Begin by cloning the repository. I prefer to do this using SSH (you can find
the SSH-based URL for the remote on the project's GitHub page).  Once I've
done this, the master branch will be the default branch.

Next, I [do the bulk of my
work](https://stat545.com/img/how-to-draw-an-own-imgur.jpg), remembering to
commit changes in meaningful increments along the way.

<p class="note">
  <b>Tip:</b> Use Make recipes to auto-format and lint code. I use <a
  href="https://github.com/psf/black">black</a>, <a
  href="https://github.com/PyCQA/isort">isort</a>, and <a
  href="https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8">flake8</a> on every Python project.
  When working with notebooks, I use <a
  href="https://github.com/nbQA-dev/nbQA">nbqa</a> and <a
  href="https://github.com/kynan/nbstripout">nbstripout</a> as well. This
  practice makes my code much easier to review in the future. It also helps me
  focus on logic rather than presentation.
</p>

## Tag the first MVP as v0.1.0

Eventually, I'll get to a point where I have something that can be demoed or
used by someone else. This is an MVP, or minimum viable product. It won't
have many features, nor will it be bug-free, but that's okay.

Make sure to update any version numbers in the code, then I create an empty
commit (`git commit --allow-empty`) with a message like:

```text
v0.1.0

New features

- Initial release
```

Finally, go to GitHub and create a new release (in Git terminology, this is
also called a tag). Name the tag "v0.1.0". I usually create a description of
the release in Markdown like this:

```markdown
# v0.1.0

## New features

- Initial release
```

## Create GitHub issues for all new features, bugs, etc.

Once there's been a release, I find it easier to think in terms of adding
features and fixing bugs. Some teams use other tools like Jira or Azure DevOps
to manage tickets[^1], but I always create GitHub Issues for all new features
and bugs so that the technical discussion can be as close to the code as
possible. For those who insist, links to external ticket systems can be added
to the GitHub Issue.

[^1]: I like to call these "Agile tickets" in a patronizing voice because
      c'mon, nobody _really_ likes these, right? ...Right?

## Create a develop branch

One principle of Gitflow that I try to emulate (at least after an initial
release) is that the master branch should always be "stable"; I follow the
controversial recommendation to create a long-lived develop branch (`git
checkout -b develop`) from master.

## For each GitHub issue, create a feature branch off of develop

Once on develop, I begin to create branches to resolve individual GitHub
Issues. I've changed my opinion quite a bit on how to name branches, but lately
my preference has been to list the general type of work (e.g., bug or feature)
followed by the GitHub Issue number. For example:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `bug/1`     | Fixing the bug noted in GitHub Issue #1                                                          |
| `feat/51`   | Adding a new feature requested in GitHub Issue #51                                               |
| `gen/7`     | Updating a CI script, as noted in GitHub Issue #7                                                |
| `hotfix/24` | Making an urgent hotfix (i.e., will be merged directly into master) as noted in GitHub Issue #24 |
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

## Create a PR for each branch back into develop

When a feature branch is ready for review, I push it to the GitHub remote and
make a pull request (PR). The pull request gets based on developed (i.e., I ask
to merge the branch into develop).

Ideally, projects have continuous integration (CI) pipelines that are triggered
when the PR is created. The result of CI (e.g., if a test fails) informs
whether I make additional changes. When working on a project with teammates,
the PR may be reviewed by someone else who requests changes as well.

When I merge a PR on a solo project, I don't use squash commits and create
a merge message with the following format:

```text
Name of the PR on GitHub (#20)

Closes #19. Plus more narration about the changes, if that is warranted.
```

## Create a release branch and PR into master

Eventually comes time for another release. On my development machine, I'll
create a release branch named `release/v1.3.0` from develop, push it to the
remote, and create a PR with the following information:

```markdown
# v1.3.0

## New features

- Added support for a cool widget (#3)
- Another new thing (#10)

## General improvements and bugfixes

- Some CI issue (#4)
- A notable improvement to the documentation (#6)
```

Often a team will do some final integration testing or similar, which may
result in additional modifications to this branch. Remember, as with your first
MVP, to make version number updates and tie up any other housekeeping before
finalizing the release.

By now, it should be clear how the above information can be put in the merge
commit message as well.

## Tag the merge commit

Once merged into master, make sure to tag the merge commit as a new release.
I use the same information from the release PR and commit message in the
release notes.

## Iterate

Take a pat on the back for another tidy release, and then jump back into the
develop branch and work on your next round of issue-guided PRs. The fun never
ends...

&#x2767;

## FAQ

### This seems like a ton of work. Can I skip some parts?

Yes. Some pieces here are more work than they are worth for certain projects.
If you want to slim down this workflow, I'd recommend skipping the develop and
release branches. Instead, you can still create pull requests but bae them on
master.

I do _not_ recommend skipping the following:

- __GitHub Issues, feature branches, or PRs__ - These are the core components
  of this time of Gitflow derivative. When you bring them together, they make
  for a great way to track incremental improvements in your codebase.
- __Release tagging__ - This really doesn't take much effort, and I find it fun
  anyway. It's an easy way to keep track of code that is out in the wild or
  being used by others; good tags represent important milestones you are most
  likely to roll back to.

### Why is it called Benflow? Seems kind of bigheaded.

It's not called anything. It's just the name of the blog post. This isn't
a real "thing", just some notes on what I do.

### I don't like this. Please don't do it if you work with me.

Okay. 🥲
